#summary Explanations and recommendations about commit messages.

<wiki:toc />

= Introduction =

One thing neat about GoogleCode projects is that the source code AND the wiki pages are stored in a versionning repository. This unifies the whole and allows us to make
[http://code.google.com/p/microlua/source/browse/trunk/docs/wikify.sh interesting tricks].

Now for each and every change in the repository (either a wiki page or a source file), the author will have to politely provide informations about his changes for the team. This is the commit message.

= Details =

== Base format ==

According to [http://www.tpope.net/node/106 this article], you'll have to break your message into two sections:

  * The first line must be very short (less than 50 characters).

Jump one line.

  * Then details. They can be very verbose if you think it's useful.

== General thoughts ==

There are lots of interesting thoughts on the Internet.
  * http://lbrandy.com/blog/2009/03/writing-better-commit-messages/
  * http://wildbit.com/blog/2008/11/11/the-importance-of-commit-messages/

Generally speaking, you'll have to be concise and clear.
[http://openlibrary.org/b/OL4730303M this book] should help you a lot.

== Wiki pages ==

There are two default messages: _Created wiki page through web user interface._ and _Edited wiki page through web user interface._

=== Created wiki page through web user interface. ===

Please just replace _wiki_ with the title of your new page.

=== Edited wiki page through web user interface. ===

Please just replace all words here and provide useful information.

== Neat tricks with issues ==

You can use templates for your commit messages, which will automatically act on the issues in the Google Code project. See [http://www.javalinux.it/wordpress/?p=319 this article]. You can also simply copy-paste the special lines you will find in the article.