#summary Test your scripts without an NDS

<wiki:toc />

= Introduction =

MicroLuaSimulator (or abbreviate _MLS_) is a very useful utility for MicroLua developers created by a member of our community, _Ced-le-pingouin_. It allows you to test your Lua scripts for NDS directly on your computer.
MicroLuaSimulator also has a debug console!

= Download =

A good point is that you can use MicroLuaSimulator on several platforms:
  * Windows ([http://www.cedlepingouin.com/mls/files/mls-0.4beta2-win.zip download])
  * Linux ([http://www.cedlepingouin.com/mls/files/mls-0.4beta2-linux.zip download])
  * Mac OS X ([http://www.cedlepingouin.com/mls/files/mls-0.4beta2-mac.zip download])
  * Source ([http://www.cedlepingouin.com/mls/files/mls-0.4beta2-src.zip download])

The current version is _0.4 Beta2_.

= Usage =

== Launch a script ==

With `file > open`, you can browse your files and open Lua scripts. You can also pass the script to test as an arg on the command line.

== Commands ==

=== Buttons ===

Here is a comparative list between the controls of the DS and those of your computer:

|| *DS* || *Keyboard* ||
|| Up || I or 8 ||
|| Down || K or 5 or 2 ||
|| Left || J or 4 ||
|| Right || L or 6 ||
|| A || D ||
|| B || X ||
|| X || E ||
|| Y || S ||
|| L  || A or R ||
|| R  || Z or T ||
|| START || Q or F ||
|| SELECT || W or V ||
|| Stylus || Mouse ||

=== Shortcuts ===

You can use some shortcuts in MLS:

|| *Shortcut* || *Effect* ||
|| Ctrl+O || Open a script ||
|| P || Pause the script ||
|| B || Restart the script ||
|| C || Show/Display the console ||
|| DEL || Clear the console ||
|| F1 || Reduce FPS ||
|| F2 || increase FPS ||
|| F3 || Reduce UPS ||
|| F4 || increase UPS ||
|| F5 || increase the log level ||
|| _Ctrl_+Q || Quit MLS ||

_Ctrl_ key is _Command_ key ("Apple") on Mac OS X.

== Know limitations ==

=== Paths ===

The `.ini` and `.txt` files are load from the folder of the `mls` executable, but the images are loaded from the script folder. So, be careful to place the files in the right place.

=== Sound ===

Due to the lack of sound libraries, there is currently no sound in MLS.

= Links =

Changelogs:
  * In English: http://microlua.xooit.fr/t180-Micro-Lua-Simulator.htm
  * In French: http://microlua.xooit.fr/t179-Micro-Lua-Simulator.htm