#summary Tutorial for the Tiled Editor program

= Introduction =

MicroLua maps can be made without text editors. Tiled is a general purpose for Windows, Mac, and Linux; it perfectly fits MicroLua.
Of course you can make your own map editor, even as a DS homebrew, and you're encouraged to, but it doesn't refrain you from using Tiled.

= Installation =

http://www.mapeditor.org/

= Use =

== Creation ==

=== Create a map ===

Go to the menu item "File" and click on "New". This window appears: [http://microlua.xooit.fr/image/73/c/6/9/newmap-328fb4d.png.htm]. Choose your parameters anc hit "OK".

=== Import tiles ===

Go to the menu "Maps" and click on "New Tileset". Then, select the image file containing all your tiles. In the example below, it's "tiles.png".
 [http://microlua.xooit.fr/image/68/4/d/5/addtiles2-328fd30.png.htm] Only change the "Width" and "Height" parameters if you need to. They indicate the dimensions of a single tile.

=== Make your map ===

[http://microlua.xooit.image/67/4/d/5/editon-carte-3290d79.png.htm]
  * [http://microlua.xooit.fr/image/67/1/b/c/1-3290dd3.png.htm] places a selected tile or group of tiles.
  * [http://microlua.xooit.fr/image/75/2/0/b/2-3290df7.png.htm] "paints" a surface by duplicating the selected tile in it.
  * [http://microlua.xooit.fr/image/67/a/6/d/3-3290dfc.png.htm] removes the tile selected on the map, but he remains available.

The top right panel ("4") contains the imported tiles and you select them there.

== Exportation ==

=== Save ===
You can save your map in the menu "File", item "Save" with the default format, tmx, so you can edit it later again in Tiled.
However, to use it in MicroLua, save it also as a .lua file. Go to "File/Export as", choose "Lua File (*.lua)" and hit "Save". [http://microlua.xooit.fr/image/73/e/6/2/exporter-3291011.png.htm]

=== Conversion ===

We npw have a file "_yourfile_.lua", which we're going to convert to _yourfile_.map.

  * Download the [http://www.sendspace.com/file/hu384u converter] and open its folder.
  * Put "_yourfile_.lua" in the "IN" folder. You can actually put as many .lua maps in this folder; they'll all be converted at once.
  * Launch "convert_dir.py". You need [http://www.python.org/download/ Python] and [http://www.lua.org/download.html Lua] to do so. A window appears briefly, showing the maps that are being converted.
  * All your maps are converted to .map files you can find in the "OUT" folder.

= What to do with these .map files =

Follow the [TutoMap Map tutorial].

= Credits =

StolenSoul, who made the [http://microlua.xooit.fr/t924-Tutoriel-Creer-une-map-Avec-Tiled-et-l-utiliser-NDS.htm original tutorial]